{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Aptos;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Consolas;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\ftech\fcharset0 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs24
\b\fs28 BOB Builder - Release Notes\b0\fs24\par
\par
\b\fs28 1.0.11\b0\fs24\par
\b\fs22 bobbuilder\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  Unified build workflow: DoBuild now delegates to DoSelectiveBuild for consistent behavior across all build modes\par
\li0 -  Selective builds now include pre/post-build tests, installer generation, and build-complete scripts when building all projects ([ALL])\par
\li0 -  Enhanced /PROJECT builds with full pipeline support (tests, installers, completion scripts)\par
\b\fs22 bobmdtortf\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  Fixed incorrect indentation after a list ended (added FInList state tracking)\par
\pard \par
\b\fs28 1.0.10\b0\fs24\par
\b\fs22 bobbuilder\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  New \b Code Format Scripts\b0  collection: add custom code formatting commands to run independently from the build process\par
\li360 -  Examples: formatter -r -d "%projectFolder%source" or pasfmt "%projectFolder%source"\par
\li0 -  \b /FORMAT\b0  command-line parameter to execute formatting scripts without triggering a full build\par
\b\fs22 bobbuildergui\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  \b Format button\b0  in GUI to run configured format scripts\par
\li0 -  Format scripts can be configured in the visual editor alongside pre-build and post-build scripts\par
\pard \par
\b\fs28 1.0.9\b0\fs24\par
\b\fs22 bobbuilder\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  Added /PROJECT command-line parameter to build specific projects without loading the full project configuration.\par
\b\fs22 bobbuildergui\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  New visual form-based editor for builder configurations, replacing manual JSON editing.\par
\b\fs22 bobcodesign\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  Supports /SELFSIGN option for self-signed certificates.\par
\b\fs22 bobmdtortf\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  New tool to convert Markdown files to rich-text (.rtf) with:\par
\li360 -  Headings, bold/italic, inline code, and fenced code blocks\par
\li360 -  Clickable hyperlinks and images (PNG/JPEG)\par
\li360 -  Bullet lists\par
\li360 -  Markdown-style tables rendered as RTF tables with visible borders\par
\pard \par
\b\fs28 1.0.8.0\b0\fs24\par
\b\fs22 bobcodesign\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  Option /IGNOREEFAIL:true to allow a fake profile for test builds.\par
\pard \par
\b\fs28 1.0.7.0\b0\fs24\par
\b\fs18 bobcodesign\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  Supports a custom command line and variables. Default command line is now configured for use with a hardware token.\par
\pard \par
\b\fs28 1.0.6.0\b0\fs24\par
\b\fs22 bobcodesign\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  Fixed: Would not save settings when adding a profile.\par
\b\fs22 bobwixwrapper\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  Updated: Help was missing parameters.\par
\pard \par
\b\fs28 1.0.5.0\b0\fs24\par
\b\fs22 bobbuildergui\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  Added simple JSON editor for builder configurations. (Confirm project ownership?)\par
\pard \par
\b\fs28 1.0.4.0\b0\fs24\par
\b\fs22 bobwixwrapper\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  Added MSIversion variable to allow a separate MSI version to bypass version number limitations.\par
\pard \par
\b\fs28 1.0.3.0\b0\fs24\par
\b\fs22 bobbuilder\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  Settings for Inno Script build binaries and default parameters. (Confirm project ownership?)\par
\pard \par
\b\fs28 1.0.1.0\b0\fs24\par
\b\fs22 bobmaptojdbg\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  Option to fail if no files found (default false).\par
\pard \par
\b\fs28 1.0.0.0\b0\fs24\par
\b\fs22 General\b0\fs24\par
\li0 -  First release.\par
\pard \par
\li0 - --\par
\pard \par
Copyright (c) 2025 Little Earth Solutions\par
\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
This product is protected by copyright and distributed under\par
licenses restricting copying, distribution, and decompilation.\par
}
